Welcome back.
We're going to talk about some advanced objects concepts now as they said with both arrays and functions.
These are advanced concepts you're probably not going to just get it 100 percent the first time around
but use these videos as a reference to come back as you progress through your career now.
In this video I'm going to talk about three things that are important with objects we're going to talk
about reference type we're going to talk about context.
And finally we're going to talk about instantiation
so let's get started with the first one reference to what I mean when I say reference type.
Well I want you to see if you can guess what's going to happen when I do array equals array.
What do you think the answer is going to be.
Let's see.
Hmm interesting OK.
What if I do array 1 equals 3 1 interesting OK.
One more question.
What about something like this object 1 equals value of 10
and we'll say object 2 equals Object 1 and we'll finally see a variable object 3 equals value 10 so
looking at these and I'm actually going to copy it on here so you can see it as well
looking at this.
What happens if I do object 1 equals object 2.
What do you think will happen true.
OK.
That makes sense I mean object to is Object 1 but what if I do object 1 equals object three here I get
false.
But why is that.
We have value ten value ten they're both the same thing.
Right.
Let's check something else so what if I do object one dot value equals 15 OK and now I do object to
dot value
it equals 15 but if I do object three does value I get 10 Well that was confusing right.
Let's look at what's actually going on.
And this is the first topic we're talking about which is reference type.
Let's look at a diagram
objects are what's called the reference types and JavaScript.
Up until this point all the other javascript types that we've learned including numbers no.
We have
undefined boolean is strings even symbols.
They're all defined by the programming language.
So javascript the person who wrote javascript and Xmas script the standard says these are primitive
types we tell you what they are now a reference type which is a non primitive type are not defined by
the programming languages.
What that means is that they're created by the programmer so let's look over here as an example when
I say variable number 1 equals 1.
Javascript knows what one is it's a number it's a primitive type.
It's always the same thing.
It's immutable every time it uses a one that's the same one that JavaScript knows about when I do variable
number two.
Yeah it's using the same number one that JavaScript knows about however when we created object one equals
value 10 an object two equals object 1 an object 3 because of value 10 well those are created by the
programmer there are reference types.
So what we said was I want Object 1 create a new object will say this box over here this filing cabinet
and in it put value 10 into this box object to says I want you to just reference and that's where the
word comes from.
Reference object 1 saying hey I want whatever is inside this box when object 3 gets created it's a new
object because we have the new brackets and it's saying put value 10 in this box.
Essentially what we're doing is saying when we create variable Object 1 we're storing just a reference
an address to where we're storing the value 10 which is box 1.
So we're saying objects 1 I'm just letting you know that this is the address of all the contents that
you want and that's in box 1 object to is saying I want whatever is in Object 1 and we look an Object
1 and Object 1 just has the information of Box 1 so it references that an object 3 creates a new object.
So it's saying I'm going to put my contents in box 3 and I'm just going to have the address of the box
saying box 3 That's right over here so going back to our example.
This makes sense when we change Object 1 value to 15 we change the contents of box 1.
So when we do object to dob value which is referencing the same box as Object 1 that's 15.
But object 3 dog value doesn't change because that's that's interested in a completely different box
it's box 3 and going back to the first example arrays.
Well as I mentioned in previous videos arrays are just objects at the end of the day.
So when you create an array it's the same thing creating a box a data structure.
And this is creating a second data structure.
All right.
So that is a reference type a very important concept but I think I think you get it right.
Let's get to the next one.
This gets a little trickier.
This one's called context and context gets confused a lot with scope if you remember we said that scope
is created when it sees curly brackets right.
We said that if we create a function as soon as we create that function there is a new scope that's
created so we can have let a equals a and that lives within this universe.
It doesn't know anything about the root scope which is over here.
So if I do console dialogue a well it's not going to work.
Oh and we need to actually assign something and we need to name it so let's just say.
So if I do this well console log hey we'll just return reference here because it doesn't exist.
So that's scope.
Now how is context different context tells you where we are within the object.
Let me explain.
If we say console dialogue this well you see I get some highlighting and this is the first time we're
seeing this and it's a special word in JavaScript.
Probably the most confusing word that a lot of people have trouble and even people that I've been in
the industry for years still have a difficult time with this.
But let's see what it is.
This is as you can see the window object so just the double check if I do console dot log.
This equals window I get true and I can access this dot alert.
So what this means is what is the object environment that we're in right now.
The best way to think about it is what is to the left of the dot.
So right now I'm able to do alert because I'm inside the window object so doing window or doing this
is the same thing.
Now why is that important.
Well when we get to instantiation I'll show you why it is but it's a very important concept that you'll
see again and again.
But remember this just refers to what object it's inside of two more example to demonstrate this one
is if I do function a within function a will say console door log
this so if I call a what do you think happens let's see still the window object.
This still refers to the function and if you remember.
That's because I said it has to be what object we're inside of right now.
Technically function a I can go window dot a and run the function.
So to the left of the dot.
Well that's the window in order to create a new value for this.
You have to do something like this
object a function a.
Now if I do function
and within here I do console dialogue.
This well in that case if I copy this and run object for Dot a
while.
Now this is the object which is object for
so why is that important to us.
Well first of all you'll see it in other code bases so it's good to know but it's really important when
we do instantiation instantiation is when you make a copy of an object and reuse the code.
Imagine you're building a big multiplayer game online and this game is going to have many many players
you can have wizards you can have trolls warlocks elves.
Now if you had to create an object for every single player that's a lot of repeated code that's a lot
of hassle and that's a lot of your time and it's not very efficient to solve that.
You can do something called instantiation you're making instances or multiple copies of an object.
So let me show you how we do instantiation in JavaScript.
Again this is going to look a little bit weird at first just like for loops did just like functions
did at the beginning but it's just the syntax and you'll get used to it.
So let's say we have a player class.
Now you see the new syntax already and I capitalize a class now think of a class as something that I
want to make a copy of if I ever want to make a copy of an object.
It's a good idea to do something like this.
So that will you'll see how easy it is to copy this now so we do class player and within here we'll
say constructor
and I know this looks weird but again is just syntax.
Let's give it to this player can have a name and a type and within the constructor this darn name equals
name and this dot type equals
oh boy what just happened here.
Constructor when you create a class a player class says every time I'm making a copy of a player the
first thing that gets run is the constructor function.
And this constructor function is going to create these properties on the player object so name and a
type and now I can create anything that I want for the player.
Let's say we want to create a method such as introduce that console DOD logs
with tactics Hi I am and again will you remember the syntax template strings.
This darn name I'm a this stock type.
So now I'm saying this player class any player that I create will always be able to introduce himself
and they'll also have this name and this type.
And the reason we use this here is that when we create a player we can access the name and type property.
I'll show you later on how that works.
But this is just a syntax you're gonna get used to in order to access the player and make copies of
it.
You'll have to run a constructor which is all the properties and methods that you want the player to
have.
You can also create methods that players can have and anytime you want to access a property within the
constructor will use this name for want to use introduce.
I'll have to do this dot introduce OK.
So we have a player but when we're building our multiplayer game we want to now copy this but add onto
it.
Let's say we have we want to create a wizard player a player that's a wizard.
In that case we would do Class Wizard again capital letter extends and again is just the javascript
keyboard player.
So what is this saying.
I'm saying I want wizard to extend whatever a player has.
So I want to add on top of whatever player has again because it's a class will have to do a constructor
and this wizard is gonna accept name and type and within here this is the tricky part.
Anytime we extend something we need to also call the constructor function of the player.
We have to do something called super with the properties that we want to pass to the constructor.
In this case name and type I know this is confusing is just something you have to do whenever you extend
a class you want to use super so that you essentially have access to these OK.
So let's say that with the wizard we also want to have a play function and the play function was just
console dot log we.
I'm a this type and now that we have our wizard what's the power what's the reason that we just did
this.
Now we can do this instead of constantly creating players and then saying that they have they are wizards
and they can play.
Now I can say wizard 1 equals new wizard and we'll call the first wizard again we get a name and type
so we'll say Shelly and she'll be a healer.
And if I want to create a new wizard I'll just say wizard 2 equals new wizard Sean and he is dark magic.
That was a lot of new syntax.
So let's go through it and make sure we understand everything as we've learned let's use console log
to really understand what we're doing.
I'm going to add a console log right of the top over here.
And we'll say this.
What is this I'm gonna save and actually I'm gonna copy this into the console let's copy it and see
what the console log gives us.
We see that we get wizard all right.
Let's go through everything here.
I say we have a class player then a class wizard that extends player and then we have two variables
that we created wizard 1 and Wizard 2.
Now the program's gonna see the new keyword and anytime it sees the new keyword it says oh we're creating
a new wizard and this wizard is going to have two parameters Shelly and healer.
So it's gonna go to the wizard class again because it has this new word.
He goes to the wizard class and it says hey wizard I want you to extend player.
So it's gonna go to the constructor and it's gonna see this super and what this does is it takes us
up to the constructor of the player and it runs this.
And now it attaches this as the wizard and then it introduces the new function and then adds the play
function.
Now if I go to wizard 1 and I say play I get we I'm a healer because Shelly's a healer but I also have
access to wizard 1.
Dodd introduce Hi I'm Shelly.
I'm a healer.
And we also have access to wizard to I have to run this again.
Let's run this again
and I don't think I copied the second wizard last time.
So now I have wizard to introduce.
Hi I'm Shawn.
I'm a dark magic.
That sentence doesn't make sense Shawn but that's OK for now.
Let's just try something.
If I do console log
here and we'll just say wizard
and here we'll say player just so we can distinguish between them and I'm only going to copy the first
wizard so that we don't get two of these running again because we're creating two Wizards we're gonna
have this run twice but just for our sanity will run Shelly so I'm going to refresh and add here Oh
I forgot to add a comma
and let's refresh and I get an error reference there must call super constructor and derived class before
accessing this.
What that's saying is that in order for me to access this and get this dot type I have to call super
which runs a constructor function in player.
So that's what Super is doing.
It sounds kind of weird but it just something that you need I'm just gonna put this at the bottom after
we call super.
And now it should work.
Let's see
I get the first player wizard.
So we call super as soon as we say new wizard.
Shelly healer I go to the wizard extends player around the constructor function which says super hey
run the constructor function in the player and I run that and that's why we log console log player first
and then we go to console to log wizard and then run the rest of the class.
Very cool now just to show you something.
This is actually new syntax that you'll see and react.
And it was part of iOS 6 but back in the day.
This is how we used to do it the exact same code I have up there.
Is right here.
It's called classical inheritance and it doesn't look too too bad but you see that there's prototype
which it's another thing that you'll see in JavaScript and to be honest with you you shouldn't really
use it.
It doesn't look very nice and you see that we have to attach play to both.
Wizard 1 and Wizard 2 and it just doesn't look as nice as this.
And once you get used to everything.
It's not too bad.
All we're saying is as soon as we say class we say hey we're probably gonna make a copy of this object
so we want to make copies of player we want to make copies of wizard.
And that's called instantiation.
When I do the new keyword I say make an instance of Wizard and Wizard uses some functionality from the
player and adds it's own little play function as well.
Holy moly that was a lot like I said this is something that you'll have to come back to and you won't
get it right away.
It's really really hard to fully understand the topic without actually having to use it in real life.
Just keep this in mind every time you hear somebody talk about reference type or contexts or even scope
or instantiating something.
Well these are the things that they're talking but objects are really really complicated.
They're really hard but with that it gives us a lot of power.
So with that good luck with the exercises I'll see in the next one.
Bye bye.